FINANCIAL DATA ANALYSIS AND BANKRUPTCY PREDICTION

This project consists of a financial data analysis and bankruptcy prediction using MySQL and python. MySQL is used for basic financial data analysis and data exploration. Python is used for data cleaning, EDA, data preprocessing, data partitioning and model prediction and evaluation.

FINANCIAL DATA ANALYSIS WITH MYSQL

1.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES BANKRUPT
2.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES NOT BANKRUPT
3.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES WITH A POSITIVE ROA
4.	CALCULATE THE AVERAGE ROA FOR ALL COMPANIES
5.	COMPANY WITH HIGHEST AND LOWEST NET VALUE PER SHARE
6.	TOTAL REVENUE GENERATED BY ALL THE COMPANIES
7.	CALCULATE THE AVERAGE OPERATING PROFIT RATE AND INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO AMONG THE BANKRUPT COMPANIES
8.	AVERAGE TOTAL ASSET GROWTH RATE OF NON-BANKRUPT COMPANIES
9.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES WITH TOTAL ASSET TO GNP PRICE GREATER THAN 1
10.	CALCULATE THE AVERAGE AND MAXIMUM CASHFLOW TO SALES RATIO FOR COMPANIES THAT HAVE A POSITIVE OPERATING PROFIT RATE
11.	CALCULATE THE AVERAGE NET INCOME TO TOTAL ASSETS RATIO AMONG COMPANIES WITH A TAX RATE GREATER THAN 30%
12.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES THAT HAVE EXPERIENCE NEGATIVE GROWTH RATE IN OPERATING PROFIT
13.	NUMBER OF COMPANIES HAVING TOTAL ASSET TURNOVER GREATER THAN 0.3 AND BORROWING DEPENDENCY GREATER THAN 0.5
14.	CREATE A VIEW NAMED "HighGrowthCompanies" THAT INCLUDES COMPANY ID, REALIZED SALES GROSS PROFIT GROWTH RATE, TOTAL ASSET GROWTH RATE FOR COMPANIES WITH A TOTAL ASSET GROWTH RATE GREATER THAN 0.5 AND REALIZED SALES GROSS PROFIT GROWTH RATE GREATER THAN 0.03
15.	HIGH GROWTH COMPANIES THAT HAVE GONE BANKRUPT

BANKRUPTCY PREDICTION MODEL: PYTHON

LIBRARIES USED- Numpy, Pandas, Sklearn

The Jupyter Notebook contains descriptive statistics, correlation, data preprocessing, train test split, ML model prediction, model evaluation.

Undersampling technique is applied to address the class imbalance problem in the dataset. LDA (Linear Discriminant Analysis) is used to transform high-dimensional dataset into a lower-dimensional space by retaining top 30% of the features that explain the target. 
